# Azure Infrastructure Operations Project: Deploying a scalable IaaS web server in Azure

## Introduction

This project will deploy a secure and scalable cluster of servers with load balancer to manage the incoming traffic.

## Scenario

Your company's development team has created an application that they need deployed to Azure. The application is self-contained, but they need the infrastructure to deploy it in a customizable way based on specifications provided at build time, with an eye toward scaling the application for use in a CI/CD pipeline.

Although we’d like to use Azure App Service, management has told us that the cost is too high for a PaaS like that and wants us to deploy it as pure IaaS so we can control cost. Since they expect this to be a popular service, it should be deployed across multiple virtual machines.

To support this need and minimize future work, we will use Packer to create a server image, and Terraform to create a template for deploying a scalable cluster of servers—with a load balancer to manage the incoming traffic. We’ll also need to adhere to security practices and ensure that our infrastructure is secure.

## Dependencies

1. Create an [Azure Account](https://portal.azure.com)
2. Install the [Azure command line interface](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest)
3. Install [Packer](https://www.packer.io/downloads)
4. Install [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html)

## Instructions

### Policy

Apply the provided policy (in the `policy` folder) to ensure all indexed resources are created with a tag. This will help us with organization and tracking. You can do it from the Azure portal or Azure CLI.

### Packer

Default values generate an image named `ubuntuImage` with Ubuntu server 18.04 LTS in West Europe region and a NGINX web server listening to port 8080.

1. Create a resource group to store images generated with Packer. Default value in `server.json` is `packer-rg`.

2. Add the following environment variables:

- ARM_CLIENT_ID
- ARM_CLIENT_SECRET
- ARM_TENANT_ID
- ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID

You can output this azure credentials with the commands:

```
az ad sp create-for-rbac --query "{ client_id: appId, client_secret: password, tenant_id: tenant }"

az account show --query "{ subscription_id: id }"
```

First command creates an service principal and output the necessary credentials and second command output the subscription ID.


3. Build your server image running the command `packer build server.json`. This process will take some minutes.

### Terraform

The provided Terraform configuration in `terraform` folder creates the next resources in Microsoft Azure:

- Resource Group
- Virtual Network
- Subnet
- Public IP
- Load Balancer
- Network Security Group (NSG)
- Network Interface Cards (NICs)
- Availability Set
- Virtual Machines (VMs)
- Managed Disks

Follow the next steps to apply the configuration:

1. Initialize the working directory with the `terraform init` command.

2. Customize the input variables of the configuration. Default values are defined in `vars.tf` file. This values can be overrided with the provided variable definition file (`terraform.tfvars`) and the `-var-file` option in command line or using the `-var` option in the command line.

3. Create an execution plan with the `terraform plan` command.

4. Apply the configuration with the `terraform apply` (and the options mentioned in step 2 if neccesary) command. This process will take some minutes.

If you no longer need the infraestructure generated by this configuration run the `terraform destroy` command.

## Output

- [Policy output - Deny creation of indexed resources without tags](./doc/images/policy-assignment.PNG)
- [Terraform execution plan output](./doc/TERRAFORM_PLAN_OUTPUT.md)
- [Terraform apply output](./doc/TERRAFORM_APPLY_OUTPUT.md)